---
title: Copyright This
date: 1997-11-03 13:19
tags: politics
---

I decided to copyright my DNA (TM). I mentioned this to my parents, and they
produced a copy of the End User License Agreement (EULA) that I signed for my
DNA when I was just a few seconds old, and complained of numerous violations
(they still claim to be the original authors, with all visible evidence to the
contrary). But, reading legal newsgroups has kept me abreast of the latest, and
I knew that a contract with a minor is non-binding. Besides, it doesn't even
look like my digital signature. Nevertheless, they sued me for the copyrights
my DNA and for the emotional trauma caused by my alleged abuse of their DNA
during my alleged childhood, in what appeared to be a clear alleged violation
of our alleged agreement.

My legal expertise proved sound, and I was able to convince my parents to
settle out of court signing over the rights to my DNA (with a statement which
guarantees their right to make such an assignment) in return for the movie
rights to our story and a small royalty for the first 5 years on published and
derivative works based upon my DNA. All of our lawyers are living quite well on
an island they bought in the MS Ocean (if you haven't heard, Microsoft recently
acquired stock in the Pacific ocean in exchange for their pledge to continue to
write software which supports the shipping industry).

I haven't figured out all the details of what to do with my DNA in the
immediate future...I may be willing to grant limited non-exclusive license for
purposes of cloning genetic research, but I have not been approached yet.

I'm still working the details of porting my DNA to other media (maybe MP3 for
the Patrick Steward audio-book version) so that I can sue all the random
researchers out there who might upload and download my DNA all over the
internet for who knows what evil purposes, but I have high hopes that DNA
sequencers will become more affordable, reliable, and speedy within the next
few gigaseconds. My agent (a.k.a. WebSnake) has been hard at work locating
perspective publishers, and I think I have a few who are interested in a work
that consists entirely of billions of four letter words. A couple of the
publishers I've talked to want to make a 'multi-player' version for play on the
internet, but I'm still skeptical about how my DNA will translate into a game.
However, they assure me that the technology is there (DVD may yet become a
standard, and they would be able to fit a lot of compressed text!), and that
the whole concept alone is so impressive that game play is not a significant
concern.

I've already sent PGP signed notices to my sibling that they are in violation
of my copyright because they are using a work which is almost identical.
Unfortunately, my younger brother proceeded to post my email address to all the
newsletters on the internet, so I can no longer correspond via e-mail. My
sister still maintains that I am from another planet, and therefore may not
claim protection under 'local' copyright laws, but she has not produced any
evidence other than my weird articles.

I've asked my lawyers about what to expect if I should decide to co-author a
sequel (have a kid), and they assure me that it would be less complicated if I
just wrote it myself (have a clone kid). They are still working out the
implications of revoking a descendant's license to use my DNA, which is
currently legal only before they are published (they are born). I recall my
parents trying to revoke my license early in my childhood, but by then I was
already big enough to have My First Lawyer*. He succeeded in securing a
injunction on the grounds that the severe medical consequences of removing of
part or all of my DNA, especially considering the short period of time in which
I would have needed to find a suitable replacement. Bob (my lawyer), soon went
on to indisputably prove that publications have innate, inalienable rights and
proceeded to liberate all the CDs from the local Tower Records store. Before he
could do too much damage, congress passed a law making it illegal to liberate
CDs without FDA approval. Bob plead insanity to charges of contempt of most
people, and is now serving 17 years in the new Hawaiian 'virtual prison'
complex for acting insane without a license.

Needless to say, I had to find a new lawyer.
