---
title: Game Industry Pay and College Plans
date: 2004-07-23 21:33
tags: IWantToWorkAtEA.com
---
**Justin Writes:**

*Hi, my name is Justin I. I live in southern part of California. I am only 14
years old but I am serious to pursue this kind of job. I've made maps for games
like counter-strike , Medal Of Honor, Call Of Duty, and some more. I am
currently working as a mapper for a Half-Life 2 mod called Insects Infestation.
I dont know what its like to work at ea, or if its good pay. Also what college
is fit for this. EA is one of my favorite game brands, I like mostly first
person shooters, like the battlefield series. I'm waiting for the new one to
come out ;). It would mean very much to me if you can answer my questions.*

**My Reply:**

Justin, You are doing exactly the right thing making maps, mods (man, when is HL2
going to come out I can hardly wait anymore!!), and games showcases your passion
and ability both of which will take you far. EA's compensation is very good when
you include stock, bonuses, benefits, and its other forms. The game industry
pays engineers slightly less that they can make writing, for example, accounting
software, but artists are often paid better while making games than they are in
other pursuits. You'll find that some mid-sized game companies pay more than EA
to compensate for their less competitive track record, resources, and career
opportunities and that just makes for some interesting and occasionally tough
career choices.

As for college, you should study your butt off and get into the best 4 year
college you can. Game makers benefit from having a broad education. Not only do
the people who made Medal of Honor have a knowledge of the technical aspects of
game making, but they also know a thing or two about history, literature,
politics, physics, and psychology. Games touch all sort of fields of study and
the people who excel in this industry often have specialized skills supported by
a well-rounded education.

**Justin Writes:**

*Thank you lots. a couple questions I forgot, If I want to be in the map/model
(3d) part of the game industry, what is that position called? And do you know
any particular college I should intend? - half-life 2 has been haunting me for
the last couple months, I cant wait to play it, with its physics and graphics. I
am also waiting for the sdk to come out, so I can start working on the hl2
hammer. What do you do for EA and how is it working there? I've watched shows on
the process showing what crimson Skys for xbox was going through, hard work, but
it looks fun to work in that kind of environment. which EA do you work at? and
what do you do? I tried looking for someone that works at ea for a long time
[-that emails me back-] haha. glad I finally found a person.*

**My Reply:**

Mappers are called 'Level Designers' in the industry. You should go to the best
college you can get into--Harvard and MIT are always good picks. ;) You want to
go to the best college for your area of interest and don't worry about whether
it's good for the game industry. A general computer science degree from MIT will
get you further in the game industry than any game focused program at a lesser
college. You can read some more in-depth advice [here][1]. As for me and what I
do, you can check all that stuff out on my blog.

**Updated on October 22, 2015:**

Redacted Justin's last name by his request. Fixed some typos too.

 [1]: http://www.sloperama.com/advice/designprep.htm


