---
title: Open (Source) the NSA
date: 2017-01-30 17:02 UTC
tags: politics
---

Democracy and government secrets are at odds with each other. Keeping secrets
and accessing the secrets of others is a way to gain power. And while we want
our government to gain power over people that seek to harm us, we do not want
them to have power over the innocent citizen they answer to.

The solution is transparency. The NSA must make a monthly copy of *all* the
data and software from their systems and make it available to the public 2
years later. 2 years gives the NSA and our government time to take advantage of
their secrets. And then it gives the people a chance to scrutinize the NSA's
choices.

Q: Won't this reveal everyone's deepest, darkest secrets? I don't want *my*
emails to be made public!

A: I suggest a one-time purge be allowed when we implement this policy for the
first time. After that, if the information shouldn't be made public in 2 years,
the NSA shouldn't collect it.

Q: Won't this greatly reduce the NSA efficacy? The terrorists will know all of
our techniques and be able to protect themselves against them!

A: Most people and organizations, even knowing everything the NSA can and does
do to monitor their communication, would still find it difficult and uneconomic
to protect themselves against NSA monitoring. These days, even after serious
software security bugs are found, fixed, and discussed publicly, many
computers remain unpatched and vulnerable to the bugs years later.

Q: Ok, so maybe your average terrorist won't be able to hide from the NSA, but
what about China, Russia, industrial spies, and other sophisticated
adversaries?

A: This will make it harder to succeed against sophisticated adversaries. Let's
say, for the sake of argument, that the NSA will be 75% less effective against
them. We'll have the choice to increase the NSA's budget to compensate or
accept a reduced capability. That said, I suspect that the NSA would eventually
get better at operating within the new constraints and the performance gap
would lessen over time.

Q: I have a better idea, why not make them 75% more effective by leaving them
alone?

A: Our greatest innovation and asset is the liberty our founders and soldiers
fought and died to protect. The NSA's mission is to help protect us through
signals intelligence, not only our physical persons but also our liberty--some
would say liberty comes first. Just as we increase the cost of criminal justice
by treating the accused as innocent until proven guilty and enforcing rules of
evidence, our liberty will be better protected by limiting our government's
ability to abuse secrecy.

Q: Won't China, etc. use the NSA techniques against us, our government and our
companies?

A: Yes. Authoritarian and criminal organizations operate with some advantages
because they are less constrained by laws, cultures, and institutions designed
to protect their citizens' freedom. Others will use the NSAs tools in
industrial and state espionage. But, operating under these new constraints, I
suspect the NSA will become a big source and advocate of fixes for security
bugs, and many security-minded software makers will take advantage of the NSA's
knowledge to fix their bugs and improve security, limiting the utility of the
NSA's 2-year-old exploits. Those software makers and users that aren't
security-minded won't patch their bugs, but they already don't.

Q: Why not just reveal the techniques used and not the data? Why not allow
redactions to protect our spies?

A: The more complicated we make the maintenance and enforcement of the policy,
the less likely it is to work. Complexity can easily become an excuse to drag
our feet and it makes it too easy to hide information and avoid compliance.

Q: Won't this put our sources in (mortal) danger?

A: This will make it harder to use sources, human or technical, for any length
of time against a sophisticated adversary. When we do use human sources, we'll
have to move them out of harm's way before their identity becomes public, which
will be harder on them and us. I expect we'll want to purge most of the
existing evidence when this policy is first rolled out, so as to start with
sources after we're properly prepared to explain and manage the new risks we're
taking on.

Q: Why 2 years of secrecy? Why not longer? Why not shorter?

A: 2 years is long enough to take some advantage of the secrets we gather while
being short enough for a motivated president to enforce the transparency policy
and for them to be held to account for it by the public.

Q: Sounds expensive. Doesn't the NSA have a massive amount of data?

A: Yes and yes. I imagine Google or another interested contractor would be able
to figure out how to host the public data if the NSA didn't want to do so
itself, at a reasonable price given the volume of data to be published.

Q: You are not qualified to talk about this, you don't know what the NSA and
the President knows, if you did you might change your mind.

A: As a citizen its my right and duty to engage with the difficult topics that
impact our democracy. With the information available to me, its clear that we
are putting our democracy in great danger by concentrating more and more power,
with less and less meaningful oversight, with fewer and fewer people in our
government. Blind trust in our leaders is not how democracy works, its how
authoritarian regimes work. The main idea of this policy is to make meaningful
oversight possible while preserving as much of intelligence capability as
possible as the 2nd priority rather than the 1st.

Q: What about objections X, Y, and Z that you didn't talk about?

A: Let's talk about them. I have no doubt this idea can be improved upon. The
fundamental question I'm posing is this: if you treat liberty as the #1
priority and intelligence capability as #2, what kind of NSA do you get? I
suspect 'a great one' that, instead of undermining our values, becomes a poster
child for them while also accomplishing their important intelligence gathering
mission.

Q: Won't the NSA say they are complying with this policy and then, give a wink
to the President, and then, you know, not?

A: They could. The President and Congress need to be onboard. Not just onboard
for optics while they secretly do something else, but onboard onboard.

Q: The President and Congress don't agree with you. They like their secrets.
They believe they can be trusted with them and the power it gives them. They
won't get onboard. Now what?

A: The People need to talk about this and decide its what they want. When we
are united, we get our way, we live in a democracy after all.

