---
title: Stop Hiring DevOps
date: 2017-07-21T21:28:00Z
tags: management
---

Look. The reason its so hard to find (great) DevOps engineers is that is a shit 
job at most companies. When last I was hunting for a DevOps lead, most of the 
folks I talked to had war/horror stories about working at a company (or two or 
three) where they were on duty 24x7, the codebase was fragile, they got paged a 
lot (at 2a), and they weren't given the time or help they needed to dig 
themselves out of the hole they were hired into.

If you're a great backend engineer with DevOps skills, you don't have to put up 
with that crap--you just take the 'devops' keyword off your resume, get a job 
writing code instead of maintaining servers, and let some other sucker get paged.

Realizing this might be why I was having such a hard time finding great DevOps 
engineers to talk to, I stopped trying to hire DevOps engineers--instead I asked 
my senior engineers to do DevOps and made it their top priority to *prevent 
getting paged*. They still don't like being on pager duty, because it makes it 
harder to go mountain biking on the weekend, but besides that, they generally 
like the DevOps day-to-day work (when it comes up), they don't get paged very 
often (almost never when they are sleeping), and most of the time its a false 
alarm that's easy and quick to resolve. Bonus points: having the DevOps skill 
set and access rights spread out among all our teams means fewer pager duty 
rotations per engineer, each team can wrangle infrastructure when needed without 
blocking on another team, and on the rare occasion of a real emergency there are 
a lot of people that can help.

